so let's take a look at
the packing in a face-centered cubic
structure
so i've got here just kind of a little
demo that i wrote um
showing the face centered structure
here's
for a single unit cell for example so
you can see the cubic structure
and you can see that in the face of this
cube
you've got an atom okay so a face
centered cubic structure
so we're going to add on a bunch more
unit cells so we can kind of build up
our crystal
and one of the things i want you to
notice is that depending upon
which direction we look at this crystal
we're going to have a different
placement
of atoms so for example
i just want to highlight the faces
so you can see the faces have this
square
geometry it looks like the 5 on the die
but if i was to look say along one of
the
diagonals of this structure i'm going to
slice it in a different direction
you can see now i've got again a nice
plane of atoms
but now they've got a triangular or if
you want to look in here you'll see that
there's a hexagonal
pattern to the structure okay
so each direction that we were to slice
this material let me slice it yet again
one more direction
this is now cutting off an edge you can
see that
edge now also forms a plane when i cut
that edge off
and my atoms have again another
symmetry that you don't see in the
others and different packing
this is a very low density packing in
fact let me go ahead and remove
the atoms so i can just look at the
planes
you can see this is a pretty low density
of atoms
they're not even touching in this
direction it's just like rows
then if i look at the face this is a
higher
packing density than than this one and
blue
that's our five here on our die
that's our face and then if we go ahead
and look at that
slice through the body through the
diagonal
cutting off the diagonal corner we now
have the
closest packed plane with that
nice hexagonal symmetry or
triangular symmetry depending on how you
describe this
this looks a lot like the packing of
billiard balls
right so if you take a look here
these atoms this would be your billiard
ball rack
so this is the most efficient packing in
two dimensions
all right so what we're going to learn
in the
next time in the next video is how to
describe
each of these different planes we want
some way of describing them
we're going to use these special indices
and so
we mentioned the one zero zero this is a
face
the one one zero is cutting off this
edge
and what's called a one one one is
cutting off a corner
but we'll get to that okay
and this demo also allows us to take a
look at the body centered cubic
you can see that the packing on those
planes are completely different
than what we had on the face centered
everything is much more open
and now this blue one this one one zero
now looks like the best packing in 2d in
fact this is the highest packing in the
body centered system
right in the face centered it was the
red plane
one one one that had the highest packing
so we'll come back to this a few times
as we go through
the course so let's go ahead and go back
to our slideshow
this slide here is just showing what i
just showed you in the mathematica demo
so i'm going to go ahead and skip this
one
and talk about this question of what is
an a b
a b packing versus an abc abc
packing so this is where we explain that
so this is a slice across the corner
okay you can see again that triangular
or hexagonal symmetry that's in here
and so this is for the face centered
cubic system
here so let me go ahead and label that
and the one over here is going to be for
the hexagonal close pack system
all right let's just go ahead and call
this plane a
okay and this one over here is just a
then we're going to go ahead and build
another set
take another set of billiard balls put
them in your rack put them on top of the
previous one and they'll
will naturally fall into the
hollow site in between three atoms below
it okay
forming a little tetrahedron here these
three red ones below and this green one
sitting on top okay so that's my next
set of planes and i can do that over
here as well so everything is identical
then what i've got is my next set i
actually have a choice
i can go ahead and place my next set of
atoms
say in this hollow site
here or i could place it say in this
hollow site
here okay i can't use both
because the atoms won't fit i have a
choice of which ones i use
so this one here would repeat
the red layer underneath okay now
sitting on top
this site here is unique it doesn't
repeat
the red layer below it or the green
layer and so this is a third
choice refer to this then as layer c
okay that's what the face centered cubic
structure does
so this is just saying a plane b plane c
plane and it's arbitrary what we're
calling abc would just mean that there
are three unique
orientations and then when i continue on
the next plane that would go on top of
here would then be
a again and it repeats this abc
so if you build up your planes this way
then you could rotate it around in space
and you would see that it would create
the face-centered cubic structure
all right over here the hexagonal close
pack what we're going to do is not use
this
third layer c but we're going to go
ahead and repeat
the first layer the a layer okay the red
ones again
and so this is referred to then as this
a b a b
packing that just continues when i do
that if i was to look in the crystal i
will no longer see this face centered
structure at all
but instead i will have this hexagonal
packing
okay both these structures have the same
packing density that's 74
the atomic packing factor 0.74
because they're they're made the same
way okay but they have very different
symmetry
so i want to show you is that this
change in symmetry
okay but again no change in packing
density
results in a very large change in the
mechanical behavior
okay so i'm going to show you the idea
here again that
structure is going to affect in this
case
property or mechanical property
so here i've got a material that has the
abc abc packing this is face centered
cubic
this is aluminum and over here i've got
zinc which is hcp
following the abab packing
both of these pulled in tension you can
see that the aluminum behaves in a very
ductile way
you can see a lot of change in the
diameter across the sample as it failed
you can see a lot of distortion and what
looks like a cup
and a cone okay a lot of duck failure
when you pull on the zinc this is just
showing the bottom half nail of it
you can see what get you get is a
brittle fracture you get a nice
flat cleavage plane across here a little
bit of ductile
tearing at the very end but this is what
is indicative of a brittle fracture
no change in the cross section so again
this is just due to the packing
difference
now if you're thinking ahead a little
bit you might say well i changed the
structure too
i'm sorry i changed the material right
so how do i know this is due to
structure
this difference between face centered
and hexagonal
when in fact i actually went and changed
the material so that's two variables
right
so i'm going to take a look at the case
of tin
on the next slide here tin
has two forms or which are referred to
as allotropes
just meaning it can have two different
structures okay so now in this case
i have the same material but two
different structures
so we have another structure called
tetragonal
which has this stretching of one of the
edge lengths
this is supposed to be a square here it
looks i know rectangular
but it just stretches the one edge
length still 90 degrees
on all the angles this is referred to as
a tetragonal structure you can read
about that in your text
for the other other systems
and it has a atom in the center so it's
called body center it's a body centered
tetragonal this is what's referred to as
white tin
you can see a tensile sample that's been
machined out of white tin
down here we also have
what is called the diamond cubic
structure
so this is a cubic structure so here's a
cube
and it also has atoms in the center of
faces
so it's like a face centered cubic
except then it also contains
an extra set of four atoms two on the
bottom
and there'll be two up top so again it
looks like face centered with an
additional four
atoms so this would have for example
eight atoms in this unit cell rather
than four
and i know this picture is pretty tough
to see we'll take a look at this
in other ways later and and try and
try and be able to see this in 3d
because this is a really
terrible picture confusing
so if you have trouble seeing this in 3d
don't worry about it yet
hey but this is called diamond cubic
structure right they have different
densities
because of the different packing and you
try to make a tensile sample out of that
and it just crumbles so this structure
is very very brittle this structure is
ductal
so okay so that's just showing you again
the
effect of structure on this case
mechanical
properties so it's pretty interesting
stuff
and as we go on we're going to go ahead
and explain
why this is the case and why does
structure affect
these properties so much